Who even looks at websites anymore?

In the current age of eCommerce and online shopping, the overwhelming majority of shoppers end up on sites like Amazon or AliExpress. A minute percentage of websites generate far and away the most online traffic. On the flip side, the vast majority of sites online generate little to no traffic at all. Having a dedicated site for selling a product or service seems to be a detriment in today’s world. Online vendors are forced to use a platform like eBay or Amazon to get their stuff out there and visible to the public if they want any chance of it being seen by potential customers, only to be bogged down by other sellers offering almost the exact same thing. 

A single-focus website may also lose in the promotional game, being outclassed by Instagram’s algorithms which tailor ads to the individual user and does not waste time with ads that it knows the user won’t engage with. Today, it’s easier both for customers and vendors to leave it up to these sites for recommendations on what to buy or what media to consume. But how much easier is it? What has an effect on a products visibility, and which methods of promotion are minimally effective?

The aim of this project is to create a dedicated website for our band on campus, leveraging online platforms and social media channels to promote our brand and music. The primary objective is to measure and enhance website traffic by actively promoting it through multiple methods; during live shows, on social media accounts, and other promotional activities like GoogleAds. By comparing traffic metrics before and after these efforts, we can guage the effectiveness of our online presence strategy.

I would like to utilize Google Analytics to measure traffic and other data, experiment with Instagram ads for our website/band, promoting with Google (Paid promotion to the top of its search results), promoting at shows, and a base case with no promotion at all. I can gain insight into what keywords are related in searches to our band, set up a budget for daily spending on Google promotions, and use this to refine the process for the future. Google Trends is another resource which contains data on the most popular search queries and could prove useful, as well.

Instagram also offers analytics for creators in the form of Instagram Insights, containing graphs and important data which I could also use to guage interest across platforms (how many users click the website link in the Instagram bio, how many users are referred to the Instagram via the link on the website, etc.). I can identify key demographics and interests of our target audience on Instagram. Integrating the website and other social media in this way will also create a cohesive online presence for the band.

I am not expecting to defeat the tyrannical final boss that is Amazon, but to create a user-friendly and visually appealing website that showcases the bands music, merchandise and upcoming events. I am expecting much of the traffic to come from external promotions rather than the site generating its own traffic. 

Building the website would utilize my skills in computer science, while analyzing user data would show my proficiency in business and marketing. This project would also provide a basis for future endeavors in both web development and in advertising.

I have a lot of potential data sets which could provide additional insight within the context of internet traffic and advertising. Utilizing data on the most expensive keywords in Google Adwords Advertising could prove useful for generating traffic of our own ~\cite{2017mostexpensivekeywords}. Data containing the dynamics of users on Instagram including age, gender, and other factors is also available and could allow me to specifically tailor to a target demographic or interest effectively ~\cite{instagramuserdynamics}. Once again, Google Trends is also a valuable resource in this regard. The sites referenced are only a handful of potential data sets for use, and I anticipate finding more data as well as more updated data for analysis alongside my own collected data.
